Lasagne, but not as you know it! This tasty alternative is made with succulent chicken thighs, cooked in oregano and chilli and simmered in a rich tomato sauce. Layered with fresh pasta and creamy cheese sauce, this comforting dinner idea and inventive lasagne recipe serves two and can be ready in under an hour. See method

    Serves 4
    15 mins to prepare and 35 mins to cook
    778 calories / serving
    Freezable






Ingredients

    2 tbsp olive oil
    4 chicken thigh fillets, diced
    2 onion, finely chopped
    2 garlic clove, finely chopped
    1 tsp dried oregano
    2large pinch chilli flakes
    1 tbsp tomato purée
    800g tin chopped tomatoes
    8 fresh lasagne sheets

For the cheese sauce

    40g butter
    40g plain flour
    400ml semi-skimmed milk
    160g Cheddar, grated
    1 tsp English mustard 


Method

    Preheat the oven to gas 6, 200°C, fan 180°C. Heat the oil in a frying pan. Add the chicken and brown. Set aside in a bowl.
    Add the onion and garlic to the pan; cook for 5 mins, or until softened. Stir in the oregano, chilli, tomato purée and tomatoes, then return the chicken with any juices; season. Bring to the boil, then simmer for 5 mins.
    For the sauce, melt the butter in a pan, then stir in the flour; cook for 1 min. Gradually add the milk. Bring to the boil, then simmer, stirring, for 5 mins. Remove from the heat. Stir in 60g cheese and the mustard; season.
    Spoon half the chicken mixture into a small baking dish. Top with 2 lasagne sheets, then the remaining chicken. Top with the last 2 lasagne sheets. Pour over the sauce and scatter over the remaining cheese. Bake for 20 mins, or until golden.

Freezing and defrosting guidelines

Once the dish has cooled completely, transfer it to an airtight, freezer-safe container, seal and freeze for up to 1-3 months. To serve, defrost thoroughly in the fridge overnight before reheating. Loosely cover with foil and bake until dish is thoroughly heated through. Reheat until piping hot.


